CMPE 232 Database Systems
Spring 2026
Term Project Specifications
You are asked to build a database system regarding your research interest, department, personal
interests, etc.. Your project must consist of at least 6 entities, 4 relationships and 2 complex
structures. Each entity must have at least one relationship connected. Attribute of idsshould be given
by auto-increment values and auto-set date information for the modification time. Note that weak
entity, aggregation, and concept hierarchy are considered complex structures. If you have a ternary
relationship it will also be considered as a complex structure. Primary Key and Foreign Key constraints
should be implemented into your database.
You must use MSSQL 2022 Developer Edition when you build up your database. It is an obligation
that you mustintegrate Entity Framework ORM and LINQ with your application to communicate with
DBMS. The .edmx file (Entity Data Model file) is a required part of your project and must not be
deleted, as it defines the mapping between your database and application entities. Otherwise, you
will not get any grades from the application parts. It is forbidden to use any other database
programs.(You must use Entity Framework (EF) and LINQ to access the database; therefore, please
ensure that your project includes an EDMX model file.)
Project work and tools to use are as follows:
1. Team Building: Form a group of minimum 2 students and give a name to your group. You will be filling
out your information on the group sheet on LMS as announced. We will assign members to groups which
cannot find a member. Group members are expected to have a comprehensive understanding of the
entire project and all entities. Collaboration and overall project awareness are essential for successful
integration.
2. Project Proposal: For your Project Proposal, find an interesting subject. Please be creative, do not pick
a classic subject such as library automation system, e-shopping or university database. Write the
requirements specification for the subject that you select. Give all the details about the subject. Don't
write too simple or too complex requirements. Look at the course slides for sample requirements. After
submitting your proposal, your project topic will be reviewed and either approved or rejected. You will
receive feedback accordingly, and in case of rejection, you will be expected to revise your topic and
resubmit.
3. Project Design Reports: Prepare your Project Design Reports in Entity Relationship Diagrams and Class
Diagrams. You should also create the relational model from the ER diagram. Define entities, attributes
and relations between entities in a rational manner and show them all clearly. Please use appropriate
names in your model to make it readable. You will upload your reports to LMS by the due date which
will be announced later. Also, Project Design Reports should have your project name, goals and mockups (Template of your application interfaces) of your project. You can develop either a desktop
application or a web application. At the end of each Design Report submission — both the ER Model
Report and the Relational Model & Database Structure Report — groups will present their work in the
class. During your presentation, you should be able to show your relations and use DML commands to
show your data. These presentations will provide an opportunity to explain your design decisions,
demonstrate your progress, and receive feedback before moving on to the next phase of the project.
Computer Engineering Department
4. Database Application: According to your project scenario, you will use “Create, Update, Select, Insert,
Delete, Aggregation (Group By, Exists …)” operations in your application. Also, all other commands must
be implemented inside your application class methods. By the end of the semester, before the
presentations you must finish and upload all your project files to the LMS website.
NOTE: You must use Entity Framework (EF) and LINQ to access the database; therefore, please ensure
that your project includes an EDMX model file. The home page should feature statistics charts that are
relevant to your database. Each entity should have its dedicated pages for listing, editing, updating,
deleting, and creating operations. For the create and edit pages, replace the default text boxes used to
enter the ID of related objects with dropdown lists. This will allow users to select the related entity from
a list (e.g., choose the employee's department from the existing departments in the database). Your
application must be capable of deleting an entity that is associated with others (e.g., you should be able
to delete a department that has employees assigned to it).
5. Presentation/Demo: You will demonstrate your work on the days which will be announced. During the
presentation, there will be questions asked about the project and its implementation. Your code and
these operations should work during the presentation.
